mcEmeterCalibratin.ino is a calibration program for the 
dual-current-range mcEmeter. 
It runs on the Arduino monitor. 

Here is the procedure:

1) Set up a power supply and load resistor to produce 
a  test current between 0.9 and 1.0 amps. Connect the 
eMeter to the circuit. Monitor this current and the 
load resistor voltage with an accurate DMM. To avoid 
the burden voltage of the ammeter, the current should 
be measured at the positive side of the load (L+) and 
should not include the mcEmeter operating current. See 
the attached drawing, mcEmeterCalSetup.jpg. The accuracy of 
the mcEmeter calibration will depend on the meter!

2) Measure the 1.1 V analog reference voltage on the 
proto-shield. This is on the second digital I/O plug, 
marked "Aref". Enter this value in the calibration 
program under GLOBAL VARIABLES as vREF = 1.xxx. Enter 
the value of the eMeter current shunt, shunt = 0.XX. It 
is best not to use an ohm-meter to get this value 
because contact and meter-lead resistance make low 
resistance readings inaccurate. Instead, read the 
voltage across the shunt when it is in the test 
circuit. Use this voltage and the measured current 
through the shunt to calculate its resistance, R = E / 
I. Or, use the nominal resistance of a precision shunt

3) Upload the program mcEmeterCalibration.ino. Start the Arduino 
monitor. The monitor will show uncalibrated values for 
Iload1, Iload2, Vload and Pload.

4) It is necessary to start with calibration of Iload1 
because the burden voltage of the eMeter shunt can only 
be subtracted from the measurement of Vload when Iload1 
is known. Compare the value of Iload1 to the current 
measurement of the DMM. If the readings disagree, 
adjust the scale factor sfI1 in GLOBAL VARIABLES. A 
systematic correction can be made from the following 
calculation.

new sfI1 = (Idmm / Iload1)*(old sfI1)

Repeat until the readings agree.

5) After Iload1 is calibrated, get agreement between 
the Vload reading and the DMM measurement of the 
voltage across load. In the program under GLOBAL 
VARIABLES change the value of of the voltage scale 
factor, sfV, until the measurements match. A systematic 
correction can be made from the following calculation.

new sfV = (Vdmm / Vload)*(old sfV).

6) The high current measurement, Iload2 is used when 
the current is greater than 1 amp. If possible, change 
the test setup to produce a higher current. The maximum 
is 10 A but this may be difficult to obtain. However, 
use as high a test current as possible. If it is not 
possible to increase the test current, the Iload1 test 
current between 0.9 and 1.0 A can be used with some 
sacrifice in accuracy. Adjust the scale factor sfI2 in 
GLOBAL VARIABLES until Iload2 and the DMM current 
readings agree.

7) Check the Pload reading against the power calculated 
from the DMM voltage and current. They should agree 
within 2%.